+++ 
date = "2019-01-27"
title = "19 For 2019"
slug = "19-for-2019"
tags = ["productivity","goals","motivation","#19for2019"]
categories = ["personal"]
+++

Last year, my wife told me about 18 for 2018. It's a list of 18 goals that ones strives to achieve within 12 months. She did pretty well and stuck to it. I was inspired to join. I discovered #18for2018 a bit late in the year but found it a good exercise to identify goals, have a reference point to work towards being happier and achieve more. 

One reason I was motivated to participate in this challenge was that I felt I haven't been keeping a balanced work-life ratio very well. I've been  working on my startup since summer '16 and put a lot of time into that. Upon reflection, I've not dedicated enough time toward hitting personal goals (apart from getting married in 2017!).

This year, I am starting on time, so I thought I'd share my #19for2019. By posting this, I hope to feel more accountable and stick to the list by referring back to it. My list has no particular priority or weighting. I've relocated to New York City, so that itself has brought up new challenges which I'm looking forward to.

I'll try to update progress towards these achieving these goals every quarter. In December, I'll review the results and learnings throughout the course of the year.

Here's my list:

1. Go on honeymoon (Way overdue)
2. Read a book a month
3. Get driving licence
4. Run 2019km (Follow me on [Strava](https://www.strava.com/athletes/peterdoh))
5. ~~Build a web portfolio for my wife~~
6. ~~Launch personal blog~~
7. Publish 52 articles on this site
8. Meet new people outside of my network every week
9. Rebuild dog feeder with Arduino
10. Launch a virtual SaaS startup
11. Earn 12k in side income
12. Spend one day on the weekend outside
13. Spend one day during the week outside
14. Learn how to use a DSLR camera
15. Eliminate dairy, sugar and bread from my diet
16. Go to The Late Show taping
17. Attend networking events at least once per month
18. ~~Run 10km loop of Central Park~~
19. Publish a book on Oil & Energy

**What's on your list? Let me know in the comments or drop me a message**